Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome HI Toolbox
Engineer Guy Fullerton.
I'm Guy, but he just told you that,
so don't need to be told again.
I got two things to say.
The first is no food comas.
I know you're just coming back
from lunch and you're probably
sitting there with a big,
you know, meal in your stomach.
So if you need to, get up, jump around,
get some energy,
because I got a long session.
Second thing I need to tell you is that
if you saw Ed's session before lunch,
you know that I have no demos.
And right now some of you are thinking,
no demos.
No, that's right.
I have no demos.
That's because I've got tons
of content to talk about.
Ed talked about a lot of stuff in
a high level overview sort of way.
And I'm going to talk about stuff
from sort of a low level technical
perspective and show you how to
implement a lot of the things he showed.
So before I go into details
on the new stuff in Jaguar,
first thing I want to point out is some
cool stuff we worked on in the Appearance
Manager and that we're currently
working on in the Appearance Manager.
The first thing is a radical
improvement in theme text drawing
speed in the Appearance Manager.
If you've been using the theme
text drawing APIs in 10.0 and 10.1,
you know they're pretty
horrendously slow.
So for Jaguar, we improved our caching
just tremendously.
We started making more efficient
use of the Atsui text drawing APIs.
And we basically got a two times
performance increase in Jaguar.
The green bars are Jaguar.
Obviously the blue bars are 10.1.
So another thing that we're currently
working on is some improvements
to the Appearance Manager.
If you've used the Appearance
Manager drawing primitives,
you've probably run into
a couple of problem areas.
If you use a lot of theme drawing
primitives to draw your widgets,
you probably notice that the
performance is kind of crummy.
And the main reason for that is
the Appearance Manager APIs are
inherently Quick Draw based.
When you call one of these APIs,
they assume you've got a
Quick Draw port around.
They assume that port's configured
with the right clip region,
right pen settings, and all that stuff.
But internally,
our implementation is implemented
in terms of core graphics and cores.
And that means before we
actually do the render,
we have to do a fairly
expensive sync from the
Quick Draw port to the CG context.
Also,
the Appearance Manager APIs are full
of other Quick Draw data structures.
If you pass a rectangle
into the Appearance Manager,
it's a classic Quick Draw rectangle.
It's a 16-bit coordinate system.
It's not exactly the most
modern coordinate system.
Every framework out there works
around this by implementing
their own bigger rectangle type.
So the fact that the Appearance
Manager does this is kind of crummy.
And the third problem area is
the use of theme erase UPPs.
A lot of the drawing primitives
require you to pass in an erase proc
so that you can erase behind whatever
image you're ultimately going to draw.
And this ultimately ends up giving you
this sort of Aqua misaligned pattern
problem that I'm sure you've all seen
when you ported your apps to Mac OS X.
So what we're currently working on
is eliminating all those problems.
We've got a new suite of
Appearance Manager APIs that
are still in development.
I don't know if these are
going to make Jaguar or not,
but we're working hard
to try to pull that off.
We work entirely in
terms of core graphics.
Instead of assuming that you've
got a Quick Draw port around,
you must pass in a core graphics
context ref so we can do our render.
And the ultimate benefit here is
that we can just take that context,
go right to our low-level
rendering routines,
and blit really, really fast.
So these are much, much faster.
Instead of taking Quick Draw types,
they all take floating
point coordinate types.
We've got a hi-rect and
an hi-point definition.
I think you can find those
in Carbonevents core.h.
But fundamentally,
these are just rectangles and points
that use a floating point parameter.
So we get rid of the 16-point
coordinate space issue.
And they also do not
have theme erase procs.
These are set up to work
with the HIView model.
If you had a chance to
see that earlier today,
you know that in HIView,
there is no erase.
You only draw.
Therefore, our new Appearance
Manager APIs just draw.
So you never have to worry
about the pattern misalignment
problems or providing erase procs.
And the fact that we're putting some
new APIs in place allows us to solve
some of the other nagging problems,
like right now,
there's no way to draw a pulsing
button with the appearance primitives,
whereas these new
APIs will let you do that.
So,
jumping into the new features for Jaguar.
We've got a toolbar control.
Really, really full-featured,
handles a lot of stuff for you.
It's going to handle all
the event handling stuff,
drag and drop, all those things.
Puts up a configuration
sheet automatically,
lets the user rearrange
all the toolbar items.
All of that is automatic.
Does the animation when appropriate.
It's totally customizable.
You can add your own toolbar items.
You can add your own toolbar item
views and all that kind of stuff.
And perhaps one of the best things about
it is it's got an auto-save feature.
If you create a toolbar and
you want it to auto-save,
you can just configure it up that way,
and I'll show you how
to do that in a second.
You configure it up that way.
And any time the user makes
a change to the toolbar,
the toolbar will automatically
save those changes to your
application's preferences.
And the next time your application
launches and you create another
one of the same toolbar,
the toolbar will go to the preference,
fetch the settings,
and you'll have the user's
settings automatically.
You don't have to make changes.
manage that yourself.
So the toolbar isn't really a control.
So it was a little bit of a
misnomer on the other slide.
But it's got its own header.
It's hitoolbar.h.
And the reason I say it's not really
a control is because the toolbar
is implemented with the model view
controller sort of architecture.
So the toolbar that you generate via
the APIs is really the controller.
The control or the view will
get created dynamically as it's
needed and put into the window.
And I'll talk a little
bit more about that later.
One other thing to mention, like I said,
you can create custom toolbar
item views to represent wholly
custom items in your toolbar.
All of your custom toolbar
item views must be HIV savvy.
So if you need to, get the DVDs,
check out the HIV session.
Ed talked an awful lot about that.
So creating a toolbar is really,
really simple.
Let me run through how to do that.
We've got an HI Toolbar Create API,
really creative, but, you know,
gets the point across, right?
The first parameter you pass to
that is the toolbar's identifier.
This identifier uniquely represents that
toolbar within your application space.
This is important for two reasons.
The first reason is that you might
actually have two different kinds
of toolbars in your application,
one for document windows and
some other kind of toolbar for
some other aspect of your app,
you know, maybe your preferences dialog
or something like that.
And these identifiers can
keep those toolbars distinct.
The second reason is that
when a toolbar is auto-save,
is set to auto-save,
we use this identifier as part
of the key to which we save
the data in your preferences.
So as you can see,
I've set up this toolbar to autosave.
The next parameter is actually
a list of attributes for you
to configure the toolbar.
In this particular case, I've said,
you know, hey, toolbar,
please autosave for me,
and please allow the user
to configure the toolbar.
There's a whole bunch of
different options you can pass in,
but these are probably
the most common ones.
And when you call it,
you get an HIToolbarRef.
And HIToolbarRef is just an HI object
subclass that represents the toolbar,
and it sort of floats off in limbo.
This is not necessarily
a view--it is not a view.
And at this point,
it's not even associated
with any window yet.
Now, the next step I'm just going
to have to hand wave over.
I'm going to talk more about
toolbar delegates in a few minutes,
but fundamentally what I'm doing
here is I know I've already
created a toolbar delegate,
and I'm just going to associate
that delegate with the toolbar.
So once you create a toolbar,
like I said, it's off in limbo someplace.
Now you need to put it in a window.
You do that with setWindowToolbar.
So in this case,
I'm taking one of my document windows
and slamming the toolbar into it.
Now, setWindowToolbar has two
kind of cool points about it.
One is that an individual
toolbar can actually be
associated with lots of windows.
So you can call
setWindowToolbar repeatedly,
and the toolbar will make sure that the
view representation of that toolbar will
stay in sync amongst all those windows
that share that toolbar reference.
The other important thing to note
about setWindowToolbar is that
since an HI toolbar is an HI object,
which also implies that
it's a CF type ref,
setWindowToolbar will retain the toolbar.
And that becomes important
in just a second.
So after you've associated
a toolbar with a window,
you probably want the toolbar
widget in your window structure.
You can do that with
changeWindow attributes.
And we've implemented a new
kwindowToolbar button that's an
attribute for you to turn on.
We don't do this automatically for
you because we know there might
be some cases when you don't want
that toolbar to be toggleable.
A preferences dialog, for instance,
might always need to have the toolbar.
So in that case,
you wouldn't want to change window
attributes to put the widget on.
It would be misleading the user that
they could turn the toolbar off.
Now, most toolbars allow the user
to either configure it or add
items to it via drag and drop.
And the toolbar will only do
its drag and drop work if the
control manager's standard drag
and drop handling is turned on.
So to turn that on,
you call the longest name in the toolbox.
And I'm not gonna say it,
'cause I'll say it wrong.
And turn on standard control
manager drag handling.
And since I'm kind of
in a toolbar creation,
window creation kind of mode,
I want to make sure this toolbar is shown
by default in my particular window here.
So I call this Show/Hide
Window Toolbar API.
Not only can that programmatically
hide or show the toolbar,
but the third parameter
to the API-- in this case,
I'm passing false-- represents whether
or not I want the toolbar to animate as
it comes down from the top of the window.
So in this particular case,
which is kind of example code of
creating a window the first time,
I just want to show the
toolbar and be done with it.
It doesn't need to animate.
And finally,
I'm going to release my toolbar instance.
And this is okay, like I said,
because when you call setWindowToolbar,
the window had retained the toolbar.
And my call of CF release here just says,
okay, I'm done with my local variable,
but that toolbar still
exists in the window.
You might not want to release it.
Maybe you want to keep a global around
with a reference to your toolbar,
but you really don't need to
because you can actually get
any toolbar that's associated
with any window if you want to.
So now I've got to come
back to toolbar delegates.
So in the model view
controller architecture,
the toolbar instance is pretty
much like the controller.
And it's going to create views as
necessary and put them in your window.
And the delegate is kind of the boss
of the toolbar in that it decides
what exactly can go in that toolbar.
So it's kind of the bridge
that allows you to plug the
model into the controller.
Now, as the boss of the toolbar,
it gets to do a couple different things.
It gets to define the default
set of toolbar items that
can be in that toolbar.
And that default set is what would appear
in a toolbar the very first time one
of those toolbars is ever created by a
user that hasn't saved off the auto-save
configuration stuff in their preferences.
And it's also represented in
the toolbar configuration sheet.
Down at the bottom of
the configuration sheet,
there's usually a default set item
that the user can drag as a whole and
drop it in the toolbar to configure it.
Well, the delegate gets to decide
what that default set is.
The delegate also gets to decide
what the whole allowable set of
items are for a given toolbar.
And that allowable set is also
reflected in the configuration sheet
because each of the allowable items
will be shown in the configuration
sheet so the user can drag them
out and add them to the toolbar.
And finally,
the delegate's third responsibility is
to actually create the toolbar items.
And we do this via a delegate
simply for efficiency.
There may be times when a user
has just decided to not show any
toolbars anywhere in your application,
even though you've associated
them with your various windows.
And therefore,
you don't want the overhead of having
all these toolbar items around in
memory because they're not being shown.
So the fact that we've got a
delegate that is specifically
asked to create toolbar items when
they're necessary means you're not
going to have any of that overhead.
So Delegate does its job by handling
four different Carbon events.
The first two, getDefaultIdentifiers and
getAllowedIdentifiers,
lets the delegate get to decide
what shows up in that config sheet,
what's allowed, what's the default set.
And the delegate simply responds
to this by passing back a
list of item identifiers,
which are kind of like
toolbar identifiers.
They're just these unique strings which
uniquely identify the types of items.
Oh, actually, before I go any further,
one thing I forgot,
let me see if it's on the previous slide.
Yeah, the toolbar delegate
can be any HI object.
It really doesn't matter what it is.
The toolbar could care less.
The toolbar just needs an HI object so
it can send these events to the delegate.
So you might decide that
the delegate is a window,
or it could be your
application HI object,
or it could just be any other
HI object you feel like devising,
or it could even be the toolbar itself,
just so long as the appropriate
handlers are on that HI object.
Okay, so coming back to the delegate.
The other two events the delegate must
handle are createItemWithIdentifier
and createItemFromDrag.
And these are the hooks that
allow a delegate to decide,
give the delegate the chance to create
the various sorts of toolbar items.
And you handle it simply
by creating a toolbar item,
putting it in the Carbon event,
and returning so that it gets
passed back to the toolbar.
The toolbar will then take that
item and add it to the view.
So what exactly are these toolbar items?
Well, fundamentally,
they are things that are
represented in the toolbar,
but they're not the views themselves.
They're just these,
I don't want to say ephemeral,
but they're just these things
out in space that represent
what a toolbar item could be,
could be visually represented as.
And every toolbar item has four different
pieces of data associated with it.
The first is the identifier,
the toolbar identifier.
Like I mentioned before,
this is just a unique string
that uniquely identifies
that toolbar item's purpose.
That string might get saved out to
your application's preferences file
if your toolbar is set up to autosave.
And you, the delegate will receive that
string when asked to create
a particular toolbar item.
Toolbar items also
have labels and images.
I mean, obviously,
you want all of your toolbar items
to show something in the toolbar.
And they also have a command
ID associated with them.
Now, this command ID is sent out
in much the same way as a push
button sends out a command ID.
When you click on a toolbar item,
it sends that command out.
It propagates up the view hierarchy,
and somebody's going to handle it.
Actually, something Ed showed in the
previous session is also in here.
When you click on a toolbar item,
before we send out the command ID,
we send out another Carbon event.
And I forget what it is specifically,
but it's something like K toolbar
item pressed or something like that,
which gives you a chance to hook in
to a toolbar item getting clicked
before this command gets sent out.
Toolbar items can also have
submenus associated with them.
And if you've got a submenu
associated with the toolbar,
you can also send out a toolbar item.
And that's something
that's really important.
So, let's look at this.
It's going to show up two places.
We will display it and track
it automatically when you
click on the toolbar item.
And in the overflow menu that sometimes
shows up if your window is too
narrow to fit all your toolbar items,
your items submenu will show up as a
submenu of the menu item that represents
that toolbar item in the overflow menu.
I said that right.
Trust me.
Every toolbar item also has a
set of attribute bits to allow
you to configure its behavior.
And these are-- I think all of them,
if not the majority of them.
The first is whether or not you want to
allow duplicates of that toolbar item.
Now, most toolbar items only need to
show up once in a given toolbar.
For instance, if you're in the Finder,
you really only want one trash
can in the Finder's toolbar.
But there are some
sorts of toolbar items,
such as the URL item that
Ed added in his demo,
that you want to be able
to show up multiple times,
because it's not the item itself
that is the important part.
It's the function that
happens within the item,
and that function might be different,
even though it's the same toolbar item,
at least by ID.
Another attribute is the
Cannot Remove attribute.
The best example of this is
probably in the System Preferences.
The Show All icon in the
top left-hand corner of
System Preferences is always there.
You never want users to
be able to remove it,
because if they remove it,
there's no way to show all.
So one way to do that would be to set
the Cannot Remove Toolbar Item attribute.
And likewise,
that Show All button is also all the way
on the left-hand side of the toolbar,
so that the user always has a very
consistent place to go to to look for it.
We've got an attribute called Anchor
to the Left Side that you can use
to get that same sort of behavior.
Now, some toolbar items are separators,
and that has two basic meanings.
One, it allows the toolbar item a little
bit more flexibility when it draws.
But two, it will show up as a separator
in the Overflow menu if
that needs to be displayed.
And finally, kind of a subtle point,
like I was saying before,
when a toolbar item is clicked,
it's going to send out a command
to your control hierarchy.
But it can generally do
that in one of two ways.
By default,
the command will first be sent to the
toolbar item view that was clicked,
and then that view's parent,
and then that view's grandparent,
and so on up the containment hierarchy.
And if nobody handles it,
it'll eventually get to the application.
But another very popular way to send
commands is through the user focus chain.
So you can set a toolbar item to please
send your command to the user focus.
And when you click on it,
instead of going through the
view containment hierarchy,
it's actually going to
go to the user focus,
which is, you know,
an edit field or some other
control that's got focus.
One good example of the use of this might
be a cut toolbar item that's going to
do a cut copy paste sort of operation.
You don't want that to go to the
normal view containment hierarchy.
You want to make sure that hits
the user focus so it actually
performs the right cut operation.
And of course,
the system is going to provide the
standard sorts of toolbar items for you.
You know, we have all the basics.
We've got a space separator line,
the flexible space,
which allows things to show up on
the right-hand side of the toolbar,
and a configuration button, which,
when clicked, will automatically bring up
the configuration sheet to let
the user rearrange everything.
And each one of these has a unique
identifier string that's in the header
that you can use to specify that.
Perhaps in your delegate, you know,
you want to make sure that the
default set of items has maybe
one toolbar item off on the left,
and then a separator, and then a space,
maybe another item in a flexible space.
You can do that with our
standard identifiers.
But toolbar items are more
interesting when they actually have
your application content in them.
So let me show you quickly how you
would create a toolbar item with
your own custom icon and label.
It's pretty straightforward.
You call HIToolbarItemCreate.
And the first piece of
information you need to pass
to it is the unique identifier.
So before I go any further,
this sort of code might be something
you would write in your delegate to
handle the item creation Carbon events,
for instance.
So you give it its unique identifier.
And then you configure the
various attributes you want.
In this case,
I'm creating a sort toolbar item.
And I want to make sure
that goes to the user focus,
so I set that attribute.
And it hands me back an HIToolbarItemRef,
which is an HI object like any other.
And then I go and configure
it a little bit more.
I want to say, "Okay, hey,
your command ID is this." And I've
got my sort command already
defined in one of my headers.
So I assign that to the toolbar item.
And then I give it a label,
which is simply a CFString.
And this is probably
a bad coding example,
because generally, since this is a string
displayed in your interface,
you would not want to use a
constant like I'm doing here.
You want to make sure you get a localized
string from your bundle and all that.
And then you want to set the
image for the toolbar item.
So in this case,
I've gone off and rendered my image,
perhaps with-- I think the API name is,
you know, CGCreateImage from Pixmaps
or something like that.
You might have another way that
you want to create your image.
But you associate your
image with the toolbar,
and that's going to get
rendered automatically.
But you may have even
bigger needs than that.
Not all toolbar items are just simple
icons with labels underneath them.
Some might need to be more complex,
such as edit fields or the
finder's view style switcher,
or who knows what you're
going to dream up.
We allow that as well.
And the way you achieve that is
through subclassing each toolbar item.
So by default, every toolbar item--well,
step back one bit.
When a toolbar item needs
to be represented by a view,
that toolbar item will be sent
a Carbon event asking it to
please create the view for me.
And by default,
the view that's created is
simply one that draws an image
and a label underneath it.
If you want to change that behavior,
you subclass HIToolbarItem
to override the
KEventToolbarItemCreateCustomView Carbon
event.
And now you can create whatever you want.
The only condition we've got
is that it must be an HIView.
It must be HIViewsavvy,
be ready to draw with core graphics,
be ready to call the HIView bounds
and frame getting APIs as necessary,
and do all that stuff.
And the other requirement is it needs to
support KEventControlGetSizeConstraints.
That's a Carbon event we added
to the control suite in Jaguar,
which is used by the toolbar when
it's dynamically repositioning things.
You know,
the toolbar needs to know how big a
given item is so it can shove stuff over.
Figure out when to display the
overflow menu and things like that.
So you need to make sure your
view supports that Carbon event.
One important thing to note,
on the Jaguar WWDC seed that we gave you,
I don't think any of our standard
views support this Carbon event yet.
So if you're going to try to
take one of our existing views
and slap it in a toolbar and
you see weird things happening,
it's probably because you need
to support this Carbon event.
So wire that up too when you're
playing around with the seed.
So in general,
the toolbar is going to handle item
creation for you basically by sending
Carbon events to the delegate.
And that will probably
serve 95% of your needs.
But there may be some cases
where you find that you need
to add some items on the fly,
or perhaps you don't want to use
the toolbar's auto-saving feature.
You want to load your toolbar
items from someplace else,
and so you need to build
them up on the fly.
You can do that with a
set of very simple APIs.
You can append items,
insert them anywhere in the toolbar,
or remove them if you need to.
And to make your life even easier,
the window is going to take
care of some of the toolbar
management for you automatically.
So, for instance,
if you want to support a hide/show
toolbar item in your menu bar,
or maybe even a configure
you can put standard commands behind
those menu items in your menu bar,
and when the user
chooses those menu items,
the window will receive the event
and automatically bring up the
configuration sheet in the toolbar,
or hide or show it as appropriate.
And you're not limited to just
putting these commands in the menus.
You can put those commands in
other controls if you want.
So another cool new control we've
introduced for Jaguar is the combo box.
Totally full featured.
We looked at many other combo box APIs.
We tried to get the best of
every world we possibly could,
talk to our HI designers,
figure out the right
way to display the list.
And what we found out was there's
about 10 zillion permutations
of how to do these things.
So we allow you to do
just about all those.
You can auto complete the text.
You can have the list sorted.
You can control the list dimensions.
You can control when the list pops
up and all these kinds of things.
All through a very simple API.
Now fundamentally,
you create one of these combo
boxes through HIComboBoxCreate.
Again, a very boring name,
but it gets the job done.
So one important thing to note
about this API before I describe
it anymore is the fact that
it's going to create an HI view.
And by default--well, not by default.
When you create an HI view,
it's not associated with any window.
It's out in limbo someplace.
And it's not going to be displayed.
It's not going to be displayed or even
be able to be tracked or anything like
that until you put it in a window.
And you simply put it in a
window by embedding it into the
appropriate parent view in whatever
window you want to put it into.
So when you call HIComboBoxCreate,
you need to supply a couple things.
You give it some default
text for the edit field,
if you feel like giving it default text.
And you give it an array of
items to populate the list.
And that's pretty much about it.
You can pass in attributes to vary
behaviors and stuff like that.
But we've also got a suite of
APIs that let you customize
the behavior on the fly,
alter list items on the fly,
add and remove them,
and do various things.
It's really, really easy to use.
This screenshot,
I think I threw something
together in about two minutes
to make the screenshot work.
So it's really, really simple.
So another view that I talked
about is the scroll view.
We finally got a scroll view in Carbon.
It's really, really cool.
It does all kinds of stuff for you.
It makes your life really, really easy.
I'm probably going to change data
browser to start using the scroll
view to simplify some stuff,
and that will allow me to fix data
browser bugs a little bit more quickly,
too.
So that will be good for everybody.
So simply speaking,
the scroll view is a way to allow the
toolbox to scroll some larger canvas,
some larger image, or maybe a text flow
or something like that.
Within a small space.
And the toolbox is going to manage
the scroll bars for you automatically.
It'll deal with everything if
the scroll view gets smaller.
It's just really, really easy to use.
You create one of these scroll
views with hiscrollviewcreate.
And again, because this is an HI view,
it's not bound to any window.
So then you would embed it.
You would, yeah,
I guess embed's the right word.
It's any parent view that you wanted.
Uh, let's see.
All right, so-- Oh, right.
And after you've created
this scroll view,
You need to embed your canvas or
your content into the scroll view.
And your content is any other view,
so long as that view
supports a certain protocol.
Now,
what do I mean by a content or a canvas?
This kind of gives you an idea
of what I'm talking about.
The scroll view is what
I showed on that first slide.
It's just the fully opaque part
of the picture here with the
image in it and the scroll bars.
That's the whole scroll view.
Whereas your canvas is the larger flow,
i.e., the image that
we're showing behind that.
And the way this all works is simply
by making sure your Canvas view
supports the scroll view protocol.
So the ScrollView protocol
is a set of three events,
and the first of which is, "Hey, Canvas,
get me your info," and that's the
KEVENT_SCROLLable_GetInfo Carbon event.
So when your canvas receives that event,
you need to supply a set of information
that describes how big the canvas is.
You're going to tell it literally
the pixels wide and pixels high,
or in fact it doesn't
even have to be pixels.
It can be in whatever unit you want.
You need to tell where
you're scrolled to right now,
how much you want to scroll,
if the user clicks in the arrows in
the page up and page down parts of
the scroll bar and stuff like that,
as well as how much are
you showing right now.
And that allows us to use proportional
scroll bar thumbs and things like that.
And so you'll receive this event any
time the scroll view needs to rebuild
its scroll bars or rethink the way
it's laying out and stuff like that.
The next event your canvas
is going to receive is the
KEventsScrollableScrollToCarbon event.
And simply speaking,
this Carbon event is sent to your
canvas as a request to scroll now,
do it now, right?
The user has just clicked
the thumb and dragged down.
And the scroll view knows that because
it owns the scroll bar and has an
action proc associated with it.
So then it sends your canvas
the ScrollToCarbon event.
It knows how many units you need to
scroll and whatever your unit space is.
And so your job is just
to move your content.
And so that might be as
simple as redrawing or to
make your life even easier,
we have this HIViewScrollRect API.
Ed showed off the power of
this API in one of his demos,
but the subtlety might have
not quite been apparent.
Essentially what this API lets
you do is take any view and
say scroll it by this amount.
And the HIView mechanism will do the
right thing with respect to the amount
of scrolls that you need to scroll.
So it will do the scroll rect to
speed and efficiency as best it can.
It will kind of do a scroll
rect like operation on all the
bits that are easily scrollable.
But then it takes all the revealed areas
and makes sure to invalidate those.
As well as making sure that any content
that happened to be on top of you,
like maybe a peer view that
was above you in z order.
Or, you know, a peer of your parent,
anybody that's above you
in the HIView z order.
And invalidate that area because
that needs to get redrawn.
So in an optimal case,
it's going to do a really
flas-- really fast blit.
But if it needs to,
it'll jump through a few more hoops
to make sure invalidation happens.
So the last Carbon event is the k-event
scrollable info changed Carbon event.
And this is not one that your
canvas is going to receive,
but it's one that your canvas must send.
There's occasionally times when
a canvas changes in some fashion.
For instance,
your canvas might be a huge text
editing engine of some type.
And as the user's typing,
the height of your total pay--or all
of your text is getting longer and
longer and longer or maybe the user
goes and changes the font setting and
that completely causes re-layouts.
Now your document's twice as long,
twice as wide, who knows what.
But now you need to make sure
the scroll view scroll bars
are updated to reflect reality.
And you do that by sending the
k-event scrollable info changed
Carbon event to the scroll view.
The scroll view will see that and say,
"Ah, okay, I know you've changed." So it
immediately turns around and says,
"Hey, give me your info." And in fact,
it might not even immediately
turn around and ask for your info.
It might defer that until
later if it needs to.
One important thing to note-- So,
we haven't implemented
this in the Jaguar seed.
In fact,
we just found out about the need for
it last week--or earlier this week,
I guess, as we were getting ready
for one of the demos.
So we'll have this in
by the time we ship.
So another really,
really cool thing I want
to talk about is drawers.
Yeah, we've got drawers in Carbon.
It's really cool.
You know what they are.
You've seen them in mail.
You want to use them, and now you can.
And it's really, really simple.
There's not a whole lot of
new APIs in the drawer API.
In fact, you create a drawer like
you create any other window.
You call create new window.
And we've got a brand new window class
called kDrawerWindowClass that defines,
you know, the right frame and all the
right look and stuff like that.
So you create it.
And then in all likelihood,
you want your drawer to have the
appropriate theme background.
And we've got an appearance manager theme
brush called kThemeBrushDrawerBackground
that you can associate with your window
and it'll do the right stripey pattern.
And then after you've created the drawer,
you need to bind it to a parent window.
And that parent window is the one
out of which the drawer slides.
In this case,
I've got a document window in my app,
and I want to associate
the drawer with it.
So it's just a really
quick and easy step.
And after that, you're pretty much done.
Now, you might want to
configure it a little bit,
and we've got a couple configuration
APIs if you need to use them.
But generally speaking,
just creating the drawer and
binding it to the window is enough.
So the first configuration
API is setDrawerPreferredEdge.
By default, when a drawer slides
out of a parent window,
the edge it slides out from
is based on two things.
It's based on the system direction,
whether it's a left-to-right
language or a right-to-left language,
and it's also based on the
amount of screen real estate,
right?
If a drawer would normally try
to slide out of the right side,
but there's not enough
room on the right side,
it'll shoot out the
left side or whatever.
But if you want to change that behavior,
or even make the drawer slide out
of the bottom or even the top of
your window if you have that need,
you can use the
SetDrawerPreferredEdge API.
Now, the other configuration
API that's specific to drawers
is called setDrawerOffsets.
Left to its own devices,
a drawer will appear with its top
edge aligned with the top edge
of your window's content and the
bottom edge aligned with the bottom
edge of your window's content.
But if you need to change this behavior,
you can do that with set drawer offsets.
You know, for whatever reason,
if you have 50 pixels down at the
bottom of your window that you
don't want the drawer to be sort
of overlapping linearly with,
you don't have to.
You can just say, "Hey,
have your bottom edge be 50
pixels up from the bottom."
And also by default,
when you resize the parent window,
a drawer will resize with
the parent window subject to
the offsets you've supplied.
If you want to constrain the drawer
with respect to its resizing,
you can do it one of two different ways.
If you call setWindowResizeLimits,
which is just a normal
window manager API,
you can set whatever
resize limits you want,
min and a max,
and the drawer will respect that.
And likewise,
we send out a pair of Carbon events,
getMinimumSize and
getMaximumSize Carbon events,
so that if you need to determine
your drawer's minimum and
maximum size dynamically,
you can just attach a Carbon event
handler to your drawer window,
listen to those Carbon events,
respond with the right values,
and the toolbox will do all
the right stuff for you.
So drawer event handling is
kind of a three part story.
The best version of the story comes when
you use the standard window handlers and
as much of Carbon events as possible.
Because when you use the
standard window handlers,
all the interaction happens for free.
But if you need to use
more wait next event driven
Event flow.
You can do that too.
You just need to make sure you
handle it like any other window.
You know, you call handle control click,
find control, you know,
do all those various things
that you're used to doing.
But one thing to keep in mind
is that the K event window draw
content Carbon event is required
to make the drawer work properly.
But that's got kind of an asterisk on it.
So first some background.
When a drawer first slides
out of its parent window,
it needs to have content in it.
It's not like you're going to receive an
update event as it's sliding out and get
a chance to paint each stripe of each
frame of the animation as it slides out.
That'd be kind of crazy.
So we send this Carbon event to the
drawer in an effort to pre-render the
drawer so that it can slide out in
one fell swoop and be nice and smooth
and have a pretty image there already.
Now the big asterisk I was talking about
with respect to this is that if you're
using a full-blown compositing window,
you've turned HIView on for that window,
you don't need to worry about
the draw content Carbon event.
Carbon event,
because HIV is going to take
care of all the drawing for you.
And in fact,
draw content is not even required if
you're a standard window handler--sorry,
if you're using the standard window
handler on that drawer and all you
have is controls in that window,
the standard window handler will
make sure that the draw content
Carbon event gets serviced automatically.
So that'll just happen for free.
And so you've created a drawer,
you've bound it to the window,
and in some fashion you need to
make it accessible to the user.
You need to slide it in and out.
There's two different ways to do that.
We've got a high level
API and a low level API.
The high level API is ToggleDrawer.
Really straightforward.
You just pass in your
drawer and that's it.
The drawer already knows its state.
It knows if it's closed,
it knows if it's open,
and it does the reverse.
It's going to animate and slide out.
The important note about
ToggleDrawer is that it operates
completely asynchronously.
So as soon as you call ToggleDrawer,
that API is going to return,
control goes back to your application,
and the drawer is basically
going to slide out on a timer.
So in order for the drawer
to actually slide out,
you need to make sure you go back
into your normal event processing.
You know, call wait next event or
run application-- well,
if you called run application event loop,
you don't have to worry about this.
But call wait next event is appropriate
to make sure timers fire and things like
that happen so the drawer slides out.
The lower level APIs give
you not only configurability,
but they also allow you to slide the
drawer synchronously if you need to.
OpenDrawer and ClosedDrawer
obviously do what they say.
You just pass the drawer and you
pass some configuration information.
You know, you can make it
synchronous if you need to,
if you've got that need.
So sometimes it's not enough to
just open or close the drawer.
Parts of your application may need
to update its interface based on
whether the drawer is open or closed.
You might want to change the state of
a menu item in the menu bar to switch
from open drawer to closed drawer,
or who knows what.
And to that end,
we've added a set of four
Carbon events that you can listen
to to basically be notified when
something's happening to the drawer.
When you call an API like
toggleDrawer when a drawer is closed,
or if you just call openDrawer,
we're immediately going to send
a K event window drawer opening
Carbon event to the drawer window,
and I think to the application as well.
And if you're listening for that,
you can do whatever
updating you need to do.
And likewise, once the drawer has
completely finished opening,
we're going to send the K event
window drawer opened Carbon event,
past tense.
So you can do whatever
you need to do there.
And likewise,
we've got two other Carbon events for
drawer closing and drawer closed as well.
So the Services menu is really,
really cool.
It's not specifically a new
Jaguar feature per se because
we shipped it in Mac OS X1.
But it's cool for two main reasons.
It's really cool for users
because they may want some
functionality in your application,
but for whatever reason you
couldn't get it out in this release.
But there might be a service
out there that can provide
that functionality for them.
So it kind of in a way gives users,
you know,
free functionality in your application.
And it's really cool from a
developer perspective because
it's really easy to support.
And at the same time, it gets this free
functionality out there.
You know, you can now say, "Hey,
I'm services savvy.
I'm integrated with this app
or that app." Or in this case,
you know, you're integrated with mail.
You can now mail text directly
out of some word processing
document or something like that.
So there's two pieces to services.
The service clients,
which are your applications,
it's your productivity app.
And there's also service providers.
First I want to talk
about service clients.
Service clients do their work via a
set of three different Carbon events
that seem very much copy/paste like.
Well, because they're basically
copy and paste operations.
But there's one other Carbon event
that's important and isn't
exactly copy and paste like,
and that's kEventServiceGetTypes.
Your application will be sent this
GetTypes Carbon event when a service is
considering looking at your interface.
Essentially when the user pulls
down the service menu and the
service's engine needs to figure out
which menu item should be enabled
and disabled and stuff like that,
they'll send this Carbon event
to your application.
So your application has two
different responsibilities when
it receives this Carbon event.
You need to explain what data
you can immediately export now.
And that's fundamentally
asking the question,
what does the user have
selected right now?
So if you're a basic text
editing application and the
user's got some text selected,
you might say, hey,
I can give you text and I can
give you Unicode text and styled
text and who knows how many other
varieties of text you want to offer.
You can hand that over.
But if you're a really, really rich,
full-featured text editor and
maybe you support QuickTime movies,
and in fact the user's got a
QuickTime movie in your document
and it's selected right now,
and you received this Carbon event,
you'd not only want to return
text if that's what's selected,
but you'll also want to return movie.
And likewise,
the other responsibility you
have is a definition of what
flavors you can receive right now.
So in this case of a really,
really full-featured text editor,
you might say these three varieties
of text and you might say movie and
JPEG and PICT and various other image
types and maybe sound or whatever,
but it's just up to you to say, hey,
these are the things I could accept
in sort of a paste-like operation.
And the way you report this
information are via arrays of strings.
This event comes in with
two mutable arrays that you
can look at and manipulate.
And it's your job to just fill that
up with the appropriate strings.
So what are the appropriate strings?
Well, traditionally,
Carbon applications are not necessarily
the same as the other types of text.
So you can see that the two options
have dealt with the notion of
flavors in terms of OS types,
right?
PICT, M-O-O-V-T-E-X-T or whatever.
But in order to be compatible with
the existing services implementation,
which was originally born
from Cocoa and whatnot,
they use these NSStrings to
represent the flavor types,
you need to convert those OS types
into the appropriate string.
And you do that with create
type string with OS type.
So if you can accept as paste text,
you would simply call create
type string with OS type,
paste text,
it's going to hand you back a string,
stick that string in the array,
and you return from your
Carbon event handler.
So then there's two events
that get sent to you when a
service is actually invoked.
The first is KEventServiceCopy.
And this may not always get sent to you,
but I'll explain more why later
when I talk about service providers.
KEventServiceCopy is a request for
you to package up the selection
and hand it off to the service.
So in this Carbon event,
you'll find a scrap ref.
And just like using the normal
Scrap Manager APIs in Carbon events,
you just package up all your data,
put it in that scrap ref, and return.
And then the system goes off
and talks to the service.
And then you might also be sent a
K event service paste Carbon event,
which is a request to, hey,
I've just modified this data for you,
or actually the service has
just modified this data for you.
Please,
please put it into your interface.
So you simply handle this event by taking
the scrap ref out of the Carbon event,
extracting whatever
data you want out of it,
and replacing the current
selection with that data.
Service providers can also
be Carbon applications,
and they take maybe a little
bit more work to put together,
but only because you need
to modify your Info.plist.
There's two things you need
to do to your Info.plist.
One is something you probably have
already done if you have an Info.plist,
and that's sort of make sure
you've got a CFBundle identifier.
The CFBundle identifier is simply the
bundle packaged app replacement for
the notion of an application signature.
You probably have one already,
but if you don't,
you need to make sure you add one
in order to be a service provider.
The second thing you need to do
is describe the set of services
your service can perform.
And you do that by adding the
NSServices key to your Info.plist.
The data in this key is an array
of dictionaries where every item
in the array is one service that
your overall provider can perform.
Every dictionary has four pieces of data.
It's got a message identifier.
That's simply an identifier
string that uniquely identifies
that service to your provider,
right?
I mean, if you're a service that can
do four different things,
you need to have four different
unique ID strings because you're
going to be sent this identifier
when asked to perform that service.
So it allows you to sort of uniquely
tell what thing the user's picked.
The next thing you need to put in
the dictionary is the menu item text.
Obviously,
it's going to show up in the menu.
And then you have two different lists.
The list of send types and return types.
Send types are the types of data that
you can accept into your service.
You know, in the case of the example
I was showing before,
mail text, it would say, "Hey,
I can take text and Unicode text and
various other types." The return types
are the list of data types that you
can actually hand back after you've
performed whatever your service is.
And it's possible that you might not
even have any send types or might
not even have any return types,
but you'll definitely
have one or the other.
Some services are only data returners.
For instance,
there might be a service which
is "Paste my signature into
this whatever it is," right?
"Paste my signature into your document."
Whereas you might have the inverse,
which is the mail text service item,
which is, "Hey,
the user's got something selected.
Just go do something with it.
I'm not going to hand them anything back.
I'm just going to do something with it."
So once you've created your
service provider application
and built up its Info.plist,
you need to make sure it's
put in the right place.
Otherwise, the service engine won't
be able to find it.
It can pretty much go in any
of the standard system paths
that end in /applications or
into system library services.
And that just simply makes sure
that the engine knows where to look.
The engine doesn't want to scan every
single place on your hard drive looking
because that would just take too long.
So when your service has one
of its menu items chosen,
your service app will receive the
KEVENT service perform Carbon event.
It's got two pieces of data in it.
The message identifier,
which is that string that uniquely
identifies that particular service
that your provider can perform.
And a scrap ref containing
the data from the application,
the front most application that
the user was interacting with.
And that gives your service
a chance to do its work.
If you're interested in
processing the incoming data,
you can do that.
If you have outgoing data,
you can put your outgoing
data into the scrap ref.
But like any good scrap ref client,
before you modify a scrap ref,
you need to call clear scrap first.
So you clear scrap, modify the scrap ref
to have the new data,
then you return, your service is done.
The front most application's
been affected in whatever
way you wanted them to.
And like I said,
services is nothing new for Jaguar.
It's been out there since 10.1.
We try to put HeaderDoc in all of
our headers as much as we can to
make it really easy on you guys.
And services is really,
really well documented in Carbonevents.h.
And we've got some documentation online
on the developer Applecom website.
It's in the menu manager someplace,
and I'll blab a few more seconds in
case you're copying down this URL.
Alright,
so the next really cool thing for Jaguar
is our expanded keyboard navigation.
And it's kind of a big topic.
It goes beyond just controls,
even though that's what
I'm showing up here.
So keyboard navigation is sort of
born out of Section 508 compliance.
If you haven't heard that term yet,
Section 508 compliance is a set of
requirements in order to make system
software and applications accessible
to users that need alternative
means to either manipulate or use
a computer and stuff like that.
And Section 508 says, hey,
you can't force people
to always use the mouse.
So we try to make it so that
users can use the keyboard if
that's all they want to do.
And this isn't just for
accessibility purposes.
This is just a really
widely requested feature,
right?
I mean, I'm a huge keyboard user myself,
and I hate the fact that I've got to
take the hand off the keyboard and go
use the mouse and do stuff like that.
And I know a lot of you
have the same opinion.
So this just gives, you know,
everybody a cool feature
that they can use.
And you can do a bunch of things
with the keyboard now in Jaguar.
You can navigate the menu bar,
bring up the menus, switch between them,
go up and down items, choose items,
stuff like that.
You can switch between
windows in two different ways.
You can switch between just
the windows in an application,
or you can switch between all windows on
the system in the appropriate Z order.
And most importantly,
you can interact with virtually every
control on the system via the keyboard.
The reason I say virtually is
that there's some controls that
just don't warrant interaction,
like the progress bar spinning arrows.
You know,
you can't click on those anyway,
so of course those don't
support keyboard now.
So one of the cool bits about
the whole keyboard nav story
is that most of it's for free.
The menu stuff is gonna happen
basically behind your back.
Your application's never
gonna need to worry about it.
The menus will just pop
up in your application.
You can navigate them without any work.
The only people that will need work are
those that do custom menu definitions.
And I know there's not
a lot of you out there,
but we've got some
documentation in menus.h.
One of the existing menu
manager Carbon events,
and, you know,
I'm spacing on it right now,
but if you have this
need come up after me,
I can tell you exactly
which Carbon event it is.
It's one we've been sending
out for quite a while.
We repurposed that to allow us to
keyboard nav even in custom menu devs,
so you can do that too.
Window keyboard navigation
is also mostly for free.
We tried to make this
as free as possible.
And in fact,
it will work in your application,
unless you're doing something
so amazingly obscure that
it trips up our code.
But if you need to customize
its behavior because you're
seeing strange things go on,
like, okay,
the right window didn't come forward
because I'm doing some weird things with
window groups or something like that,
and you find that you need
to customize our behavior,
you can do that with a
pair of Carbon events.
We have a focus next document window
and a focus next floating window event
that gets sent to the application.
There are some fairly strict
requirements to how you can respond
or what you can do when you respond
to one of these Carbon events.
And we've got that outlined
in carbonevents.h by each of
these events in the header.
So take a look at that.
Most of you will never
need to worry about this,
because the window switching is
just going to happen for free.
So now that we have toolbars in Windows,
we need a way to key
nav up to the toolbar.
And we don't want the toolbar to be part
of the normal focus chain of controls,
because generally users just
use it to click on and whatnot.
But we've got a hotkey now that can
transfer the focus from the content
area of your window up to the toolbar,
and another hotkey which
transfers it from the toolbar
down to the content area.
And in fact,
you can see them right there.
K event window focus toolbar
moves it to the toolbar,
and content moves it to the content.
This also is going to
happen behind your back,
and you may find you need
to customize the behavior,
because our implementation that we do
for you automatically does not support
any focusing you might do in your totally
custom content areas of your application.
We can only deal with controls and views.
So we will, of course,
take focus away from a text
field in your content area
and move it up to the toolbar.
But if you're rolling your own text
editor for your own text fields,
or, you know, who knows,
you've got your own list box
that can take care of that,
you've got your own list
box that can take focus,
if that's not implemented as a control,
we have no way to tell that thing, "Hey,
stop focusing." So it's your
responsibility to listen
to the K event window focus
toolbar Carbon event and say,
"Oh, okay,
the window's about to focus the toolbar,
so I need to make sure to relinquish the
focus on my content area." Or vice versa,
right?
The focus is in the toolbar,
and the user presses the hotkey
to bring it back to the content.
All we know how to focus
are controls and views,
and if there are none
of those in your window,
well,
we're not really going to focus anything.
So you need to make sure to listen to the
K event window focus content Carbon event
to focus any totally custom stuff you do.
Now, like I said,
lots of controls are keyboard navigable,
and we try to make this as easy to adopt
in your own custom controls as possible.
And since HIView,
we're trying to make HIView
a lot more prevalent,
we think a lot of you will need
to adopt this functionality.
Let me give you a little
bit of background first.
Before everybody freaks
out thinking that,
"Oh my gosh,
I'm going to be tabbing everywhere,
and I'm not going to be able
to get to my text fields." No,
there's actually two modes in Jaguar.
There's the traditional
keyboard focusing mode,
which only focuses traditionally
focusable controls,
like, you know, edit fields, list boxes,
and things like that.
And then there's this
full keyboard nav mode,
which says, "Focus everything.
Try to focus everything possible,
because I don't want to use
the mouse." And in that case,
we're going to focus everything:
push buttons, check boxes, radio buttons,
pop-ups, you know, what have you,
tab controls, all that stuff.
And you can toggle the
setting two different ways.
You can toggle it globally
by going to the system prefs,
and I think it's in the keyboard
pane of the system prefs.
There's a full keyboard nav checkbox.
You check that.
Now all of a sudden,
all the windows and all the
applications that come up will
be fully keyboard navigable.
Or, you can actually toggle that
setting kind of transiently
on a window-by-window basis.
There's a hotkey, Control-F7,
that when a window is frontmost,
and you press Control-F7,
it toggles the global setting
for the lifetime of that window.
And if you want to toggle it back,
you just hit Control-F7 again.
in.
Okay, so now the nitty gritty.
If you've got an existing C-Def and
you want to make it keyboard focusable,
that's pretty straightforward.
We already have a control set focus
part Carbon event that's sent to your
control and we want it to try to focus.
We've been doing this for a while,
since 10.0, which is one of the standard
control Carbon events we send out,
but we've added a new parameter
for Jaguar and that's the
focus everything parameter.
Basically,
that's an indication of what the
focus everything full keyboard
nav mode is with respect to the
window that your control is in.
So if you're a traditionally
focusable control,
like an edit field or
something like that,
you don't even have to look at
the focus everything parameter,
right?
You're always going to accept
the focus regardless of whether
full keyboard nav is on.
But if you're not one of these
traditionally focusable controls,
like some sort of custom button,
you want to look at the state of
the focus everything parameter.
And if you're gaining focus,
you want to make sure you
only gain focus if the focus
everything parameter is true.
However,
if you're being asked to lose focus,
perhaps because somebody's
asking you to focus to the next
part and you have no next part,
you don't want to care about
the focus everything parameter.
You want to make sure you can
always lose focus regardless of
whether full keyboard nav is on.
So once you're focused,
there's two things you
should probably do.
Obviously,
the whole point of being focused is
so you can respond to keyboard events.
So the event you generally want to
listen to if you're only interested in,
say for instance,
the push button is really only
interested in the space bar because
that's the equivalent of a mouse click.
You would want to listen to
K-Event Keyboard Raw Key Down.
This just tells you at the lowest level,
hey, this key was pressed.
It gives you a chance to act on that.
And generally, for simple controls,
you can act simply by
calling HIV simulate click.
HIV simulate click is pretty cool.
You can think of it sort of as a
wrapper around highlight control,
right?
Because to simulate a
click on a push button,
we want to say, hey, button,
highlight your button part and
then wait a short time and then
unhighlight your button part and
then pretend like it was clicked.
So in that way, it's kind of a wrapper
around highlight control.
But the best part about it is
this API behaves the same as,
say, handle control click,
but it's not the same as, say,
handle control click.
So if you call HIV simulate
click on a push button that has
a command ID associated with it,
that command ID will be sent out in
the appropriate way for the button.
So since we're now focusing more,
you might find when we
actually ship Jaguar,
I've got to get to a side note here,
you might find that the
focus order is a little off.
In Jaguar, what we intend to do is a
spatial keyboard navigation
focus order determination stuff.
And I've got an algorithm that mostly
worked until I found an infinite loop.
So for the seed, yeah,
for the seed that's turned off,
basically now we do a
really stupid focus order,
which is based on peer order
in the control hierarchy.
And in fact,
it doesn't even support backward focus,
because I just had to submit
the bug fix for the build.
But when we actually ship,
it's going to be a
spatial navigation order.
And we're going to determine
that as best we can.
But you might find that our
best determination isn't
exactly perfect for your needs.
So we want to allow you to
customize the focus order.
And you can do that two different ways.
A parent is actually--sorry,
a parent view, a parent control,
is actually in charge of the focus order.
And we have a focus order
for the children within it.
To that end,
we send a control get next focused
candidate to the parent view whenever
we're trying to move away from
one control to another control.
So it lets the parent sort
of decide what's going on.
So if you are, you know,
like a user pain sort of thing,
where you're organizing a
group of other controls,
and you want to determine
their focus order,
you can respond to that Carbon event.
Another higher level way to do this
is actually with a set of APIs.
Given any view, you can say,
"This view is your next
view." And then the focusing
subsystem will be overridden,
and we'll make sure to go
to the order you specify.
And likewise, you can say,
"Given any parent view,
please focus this child first." So,
you know, if you have a control that
you want to make sure is
always focused in your window,
you're probably going to get
one of the routes and say,
"Hey,
this is your first child." And we'll make
sure to start the order with that one.
So Carbon is far from dead.
Carbon is still way alive,
and Carbon will be alive for a long time.
We're trying to throw all these new
cool features out there for you.
We want you to adopt
them as best you can,
because they're going to
make great Aqua applications.
And besides, you've got a week before
Episode Two comes out,
and you need something to do between
going to Toys R Us and buying toys,
or at least I need something
to do between those trips.
And likewise, once you get there and
you're standing in line,
bring your power books and
you can code this stuff too.
It's really simple.
I swear to you, if you're waiting two
hours for the movie,
you can probably get drawers
implemented in your application.
We're making it as easy
as we possibly can,
so I want you to get out there
and implement this stuff,
and it'll make really,
really great applications.
And we've already got
documentation out there.
On the--I don't know if this
stuff is on the CD or not,
or if it's on the site.
Anyway, we've got preliminary
documentation on HI objects.
It talks about how to manage them,
how to subclass them,
and stuff like that.
An HI view reference,
which talks about some of the
subtleties of using our new HI view and
compositing mode and stuff like that.
And finally,
we've got a reference on HI toolbar.
And a lot of this stuff also,
like I said, has HeaderDoc documentations
in the relevant headers.
So look there, you know.
In all likelihood,
you might find your questions answered
smack dab in the middle of the headers.
Now, some of the sessions on the
roadmap already happened.
But if you need a refresher course
on either HI view or HI object,
get the DVDs and take a quick
ponder at those sessions.
And we can't stress enough how
much HI view and HI object and
Carbon events are the future of Carbon.
All the new features we're
doing are going to have hooks
in terms of Carbon events.
They're probably going to be HI objects.
And if you want to alter their behaviors,
you're going to need more than one.
And you don't even know how
to subclass these things.
So, you know,
I suggest you get on the ball there and
start checking out those technologies.
We already also had a migrating
to Carbon events session,
which is a good refresher course
if you need just the basics on how
to install Carbon event handlers,
how to deal with adding
parameters to events,
getting parameters out of events.
And immediately after my session,
we've got an improving performance
with Carbon events session.
It's a good refresher course on,
you know, okay,
my app is still eating a lot of time.
When I run top, oh,
I see it's using 89% of the CPU.
This session will show you
how to eliminate those kinds
of problems and be a really,
really good citizen with
respect to the processor.
And finally, tomorrow,
I'm going to talk an awful
lot about accessibility.
I probably should have put another
session on here on the roadmap.
Before my session tomorrow at 3:30,
there's the accessibility
overview at 2:00 p.m.
If you're planning on coming
to my session at 3:30,
please go to the 2:00 p.m.
one first,
because it's going to lay a lot of
foundations and talk about the concepts.
But then stay for my
accessibility in Carbon session,
because it's really, really cool.
You can now inspect interfaces of
various applications on the system,
whether or not they're Carbon or Cocoa.
And you're probably going to want your
application to be wired up to this,
because, well,
you might be limited from selling your
application in only certain areas if
you're not accessibility compliant.
So please check that out.
and Xavier is our evangelist.
If you have any questions or
problems or bug reports or whatever,
send him an email.
He's a really good guy and he
will handle that stuff for you.
And in fact, I want to bring him up here
to lead us through some Q&A.